DOC-2746-Log Files page updated (#843)
tigergraph/server-docs: modules/troubleshooting/pages/log-files.adoc

= Log Files

TigerGraph captures key information about activities across its components through log files. These logs are essential for xref:troubleshooting:troubleshooting-guide.adoctroubleshooting and auditing. 
Logs may contain sensitive information, so direct access is restricted.

This page provides an overview of the log files available in TigerGraph, including where to find them, how they are stored, and what information they contain.

xref:audit-log.adoc[Audit logs] are structured in JSON, ensuring machine-readability and facilitating easy integration with third-party tools.

> TigerGraph Linux server administrators can also use the xref:gcollect.adoc[gcollect] utility to search for and gather selected information from the logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TigerGraph Linux admin users also use the xref:gcollect.adoc[gcollect] utility to search for and gather selected information from the logs.
```

We also provide instructions on how to
xref:elk-filebeat.adoc[set up log viewing with Elasticsearch, Kibana, or Filebeat].

== Available Log Files

TigerGraph generates a variety of log files for its different components. 
Understanding what logs are available and what they contain is the first step in effective troubleshooting and system monitoring.

=== Log File Locations

Logs in TigerGraph are stored in the log root directory, which is configured at install time. You can find this location by running:

[source,console]
----
gadmin config get System.LogRoot
----

> Within this directory, you will find subdirectories for each TigerGraph component (e.g., admin, gpe, gsql, gui, kafka, nginx, zk, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within this directory, you will find subdirectories for each TigerGraph component (admin, gpe, gsql, gui, kafka, nginx, zk, etc.).
```
It is redundant to have both `e.g.` and `etc`.
`e.g.` means "For example", so it already implies that you will not be listing all the possibilities.

controller  etcd  fileLoader  gse  gui   kafka      kafkastrm-ll  restpp 
----

You can also use the `gadmin log` command to list log files:
To list log files, use:

[source, console]
[source,console]
----
gadmin log
----

To get logs for a specific service, use:

[source,console]
----

> $ gadmin log

Reviewer: Why don't we keep the example output?
There is a screenshot later, so we don't absolutely have to have this, but most of our internal discussion has been about what is the output and what does it mean.

Some components like Zookeeper and Kafka have logs that are not listed by `gadmin log`. You can find them at:

[source,console]
----
zookeeper : ~/tigergraph/zk/zookeeper.out.*
kafka     : ~/tigergraph/kafka/kafka.out
----

=== Log File Extensions

* `.out` files capture *standard output (stdout)* and log runtime information, including error stack traces when services crash or unexpected errors occur. 
These logs are especially useful for errors that aren't logged by the service's internal logging mechanism.

* `.ERROR` files are used to log errors captured by the system, typically from exceptions caught in try-catch blocks. If an error occurs before the logging system initializes or is uncaught, it is logged in the `.out` file instead.

* `.INFO` files log regular operational information about the system's normal functioning.

To diagnose an issue for a given component, check the `.out` log file for that component.

> image::https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/6MnNakec5fKh5faCoWdZwfzprqXyguDZXt15nz0QAG1M3vW1t0nmwo7oYr3DgwVsgJoIEjub-5tSA81UtOQ-Ot-9m30zZ9Zr5tRG077dgfZ7KaE3tMMafUK63oi6fILQeM-kQw6fKqc[]

Reviewer: We should have this image stored in Antora.

=== Component-Specific Log Details

* *NGINX Logs:* The NGINX log files (e.g., `nginx.out`, `nginx.error.log`, `nginx.access.log`) are generated directly by the NGINX web server itself and are not internal TigerGraph component logs.

> * *GUI Logs (VIS):* For the GUI component, the `.out file` (e.g., `gui_ADMIN.log`, `gui_INFO.log`) serves as the primary log file. 

Reviewer: I'm confused by this:
Is the suffix .out or .log?

Also, is the Nginx comment redundant, now what you have a "Open source TigerGraph components" section?

It captures the standard output of the GUI process and includes all log levels (error, warning, info). There are no other separate log files for the GUI.

== TigerGraph log structure

[CAUTION]
====
The log format differs between the `.out` and `INFO` logs.
It also differs between certain TigerGraph services.
An internal project to unify log formats is ongoing.
====

> In directories with frequent log checks (such as `restpp`, `gsql`, and `admin`), symbolic links help you quickly access the most recent log file.

Reviewer: Who/what is performing the log checks?
I think the developers mean that they noticed that users (who are dianosing an issue) tend to frequently check certain log files, so as a convenience, the product offers they symbolic links to point to the most recent log files.
However, I really would like to see an example:
* name/location of a symbolic link
* what is that link pointing to?
